Handbook will be uploaded after approval from hendon campus

Module is good for people who want to do cyber governance (eg ISO 270001)

Or if you want to go into sec awarenness

No tests, no presentations


Risk Management
Threat Response
Operational Security
InfoSec Governance 
..
..
.
.


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------LECTURE----------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Entire course revolves around NIST framework:
  Identify 
  Protect 
  Detect 
  Response 
  Recovery

Forencesics comes in R and R, sometimes in Detect also

CSIRP/Playbook, in the playbook it must be specified the detection measures and prevention measures

190-200 days to detect an incident, which is reducing with each time it's fixed and shared.


How to prepare against threats that have infinite time and money?
- At technical level (eg. SOAR programs)
- At non technical level (governance, organizational level)

NOT ALL DATA IS WORTH THE SAME!!!

If in asset list you find print server and database, database is more valuable 


The perfectly secure system doesn't exist, umless disconnected and covered in concrete and buried in the ground

Assurance is level of confidence that you provide to customers that the system and data is secure. Can be expensive, needs money to ensure controls are in place. 
Audits are there to make sure you spend the money on the right things.

You cannot secure 100% of assets. Prioritize the right assets. 

"Always prioritize the public facing assets first." It's exposed to the world.
Second priority is 3rd party exposed apps (eg APIs, ENBD to VISA/Mastercard etc)

Users and Business processes are often the greatest weaknesses. 


Estonia (among others) is a good place to host server of malware because they don't ask too many questions (weak cyber laws)

Cyberespionage, common in pharmaceutical companies (steal formulae), aircraft design compamies (to find weaknesses)

Controls shouldn't be more expensive than the risk/cost of data breach or loss 

Most important is to test control/counter measure (CAPTCHA v2, is annoying to customer so it's a poor control in terms of customer satisfaction but is safe)


CAPTCHA v3 (prob value to 0-1, anything user does might be considered robot if prob set too high)

CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE 
  do not design a sec control that harms business (should be secure but not too annoying)


ORGANIZATION ROLES
  Executive
  Operational
  Technical 
  Government 
  Law Enforcement
  Intelligence Agencies


Signal Intelligence (Sig-Int) captures 1s and 0s, whether between human or computers (TEMPEST, monitors leaking energy which can be captured and decyphered. Used faraday cages to surpress this)

CIA TRIAD
Keep it confidential - Encryption
See if it's changed - Hashing
Make sure it's available - Anti DDOS, redundancy servers, networks, applications


owasp-risk-rating.com



Relationship between Assets Threats, Weaknesses, Exploits ,Risks and Countermeasures 

Two ways to approach this, backwards from risk or top down.
Basically, RISK = LIKELIHOOD X IMPACT (INHERENT RISK, what can happen when no control applied)
After controls applied, it's called RESIDUAL RISK
Likelihood = threat and vuln
Impact = 

How to assess risk?
ASSET          what you're trying to protect
THREAT AGENTS  people who try to attack assets
THREAT         something that causes harm to vuln assets (malware, human error, social engg)
RISK           when you exploit vuln asset, then risk
COUNTERMEASURE controls against vuln exploits
OWNER          people who own the asset, apply controls/countermeasure


RAG/MRAG indicators (maroon, red, amber, green) to show how risky a thingy is


Method to Estimate Risk (using owasp-risk-rating.com)
eg. web server

what skill level needed? (low, v low)
what is reward? (high reward)
Oppurtunity, how much time and money needed? (not much money, easier for attacker so higher risk)
Size (anonymous)
Est Threat Agent Factor: High 


Automated tools available
Public Knowledge vuln 
Detections not enabled (for now)

Vuln factor : high 

he just goes through some more options in the other calculations


OWASP uses numbered system

can also use matrix of:
              HIGH 
 impact       MEDIUM
              LOW
                      LOW   MEDIUM    HIGH
                          likelihood



According to ISO27001:
Asset is a digital doc


Defence in Depth, when hiring contractors to work in offshore branches, you gotta make sure that when controls are implemented, you have to assume the contractors are threats














