CVE to identify vulns 
CPE (the hard way)
  eg. you have cpe string, you lookup the asset that the CPE specifies. then you get the known vulns for each program/asset


Explain CVSS/CVE code 

What does a secure system mean?
NIST: freedom from condition that can cause loss of assets with unacceptable consequences
What do we need to make systems more secure?
Hardening (OS hardening) - can improve generic resiliance to external threats
IDS - good to know what's intruding 

Penetration testing is often done to blackboxes (no info about target)
Finding weakness/vulns is proof that a system is not secure
Not finding weakness/vulns is NOT proof that a system is secure

How do we all agree on standards/conventions that the whole community uses to score vuln risk score
  CVSS is the score 


CVSS 
  - Base
  - Threat Metric Group
  - Temporal ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------?????? https://www.first.org/cvss/v4-0/
  - Environmental 

eg. score of 8.1 means high risk 

If vuln needs physical access - we can say it's not as bad as a vuln that can be used remotely
If attack complecity is low, then it's higher risk than high complex attack 
Can the vuln be performed by root only? or just by any user? (usually need to be a part of the network/domain)
Does the vuln need the user to click on a link?

CVSS also introduced Subsequent system CIA 
  eg. how it impacts systems downstream 

Exploit Maturity
  eg. research says vuln found in something, sometimes with Proof of Concept (small demo in which vuln opens calc)
If the exploit is only in POC stage, then the score is lower than when the exploit is publicly available

CVSS adds conexualization to a specfic env 
eg. vuln exists, but it's a part of a system that's not used (test machine etc.)
also important for prioritziation of the vuln managemnet 

Race condition:
eg. when a client connects to a site, a tcp is sent between places. An attacker that's closer to the client and can spoof and send a packet to the client faster than the actual packet that's expected.



Vector Strings 
CVSS:3.1/AV:N/.......
rationale behind the CVSS score, basically a shortform way of describing the CVE 
eg. CVSS version 3.1, Attack Vector is Network etc.
https://www.first.org/cvss/calculator/4.0
can calculate CVSS vector string using different metrics, or derive the metrics using the CVSS vector string


https://nvd.nist.gov/general/visualizations/vulnerability-visualizations/cvss-severity-distribution-over-time
in 2017, there was a sharp increase in all kinds of vulns for some reason???

CVSS only shows public vulns!!!!!!

CWE
Vulns are consequences of the results of weaknesses (flaw, fault, bugs)

HTB, ImmersiveLabs etc sometimes have repos of CWEs built in, so when you learn how to pentest, it also gives you information on the exploits/weaknesses itself 



























